receiver/jmxreceiver/README.md, before:

# JMX Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fjmx%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fjmx) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fjmx%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fjmx) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@rmfitzpatrick](https://www.github.com/rmfitzpatrick) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

### Overview

The JMX Receiver will work in conjunction with the [OpenTelemetry JMX Metric Gatherer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/blob/main/jmx-metrics/README.md)
to report metrics from a target MBean server using a built-in `otel` helper-utilizing Groovy script.

### Details

This receiver will launch a child JRE process running the JMX Metric Gatherer configured with your specified JMX
connection information and target Groovy script.  It then reports metrics to an implicitly created OTLP receiver.
In order to use you will need to download the most [recent release](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/releases)
of the JMX Metric Gatherer JAR and configure the receiver with its path.  It is assumed that the JRE is
available on your system.

# Configuration

Note: this receiver is in alpha and functionality and configuration fields are subject to change.

Example configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  jmx:
    jar_path: /opt/opentelemetry-java-contrib-jmx-metrics.jar
    endpoint: my_jmx_host:12345
    target_system: jvm
    collection_interval: 10s
    initial_delay: 1s
    # optional: the same as specifying OTLP receiver endpoint.
    otlp:
      endpoint: mycollectorotlpreceiver:4317
    username: my_jmx_username
    # determined by the environment variable value
    password: ${env:MY_JMX_PASSWORD}
    resource_attributes:
      my.attr: my.value
      my.other.attr: my.other.value
    log_level: info
    additional_jars:
      - /path/to/other.jar
```

### jar_path (default: `/opt/opentelemetry-java-contrib-jmx-metrics.jar`)

The path for the JMX Metric Gatherer uber JAR to run. This must represent a released version 1.9+ of the jar, 
which can be downloaded from [github](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/releases). 
If a non-released version is required, you can specify a custom version by providing the sha256 hash of your 
custom version of the jar during collector build time using the `ldflags` option. 

```bash
go build -ldflags "-X github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/receiver/jmxreceiver.MetricsGathererHash=<sha256hash>" ...
```

### endpoint
The [JMX Service URL](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/javax/management/remote/JMXServiceURL.html) or host
and port used to construct the Service URL the Metric Gatherer's JMX client should use. Value must be in the form of
`service:jmx:<protocol>:<sap>` or `host:port`. Values in `host:port` form will be used to create a Service URL of
`service:jmx:rmi:///jndi/rmi://<host>:<port>/jmxrmi`.

When in or coerced to `service:jmx:<protocol>:<sap>` form, corresponds to the `otel.jmx.service.url` property.

_Required._

### target_system

The built-in target system (or systems) metric gatherer script to run.
Must be a subset of: `"activemq"`, `"cassandra"`, `"hbase"`, `"hadoop"`,  `"jetty"`, `"jvm"`, `"kafka"`, `"kafka-consumer"`, `"kafka-producer"`, `"solr"`, `"tomcat"`, `"wildfly"`.

If additional target systems must be supported (because of a custom JMX metrics gatherer jar configured using the 
`MetricsGathererHash` build time config), they can be added with another build time flag.

```bash
go build -ldflags "-X github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/receiver/jmxreceiver.MetricsGathererHash=<sha256hash>
       -X github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/receiver/jmxreceiver.AdditionalTargetSystems=newtarget,othernewtarget" ...
```

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.target.system` property.

### collection_interval (default: `10s`)

The interval time for the Groovy script to be run and metrics to be exported by the JMX Metric Gatherer within the persistent JRE process.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.interval.milliseconds` property.

### initial_delay (default: `1s`)

Defines how long this receiver waits before starting.

### username

The username to use for JMX authentication.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.username` property.

### password

The password to use for JMX authentication.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.password` property.

### otlp.endpoint (default: `0.0.0.0:<random open port>`)

The otlp exporter endpoint to which to listen and submit metrics.

Corresponds to the `otel.exporter.otlp.endpoint` property.

### otlp.timeout (default: `5s`)

The otlp exporter request timeout.

Corresponds to the `otel.exporter.otlp.metric.timeout` property.

### otlp.headers

The headers to include in otlp metric submission requests.

Corresponds to the `otel.exporter.otlp.metadata` property.

### keystore_path

The keystore path is required if SSL is enabled on the target JVM.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.keyStore` property.

### keystore_password

The keystore file password if required by SSL.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword` property.

### keystore_type

The keystore type if required by SSL.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.keyStoreType` property.

### truststore_path 

The truststore path if the SSL profile is required.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.trustStore` property.

### truststore_password

The truststore file password if required by SSL.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword` property.

### truststore_type

The truststore type if required by SSL.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.trustStoreType` property.

### remote_profile

Supported JMX remote profiles are TLS in combination with SASL profiles: SASL/PLAIN, SASL/DIGEST-MD5 and SASL/CRAM-MD5.
Should be one of: `"SASL/PLAIN"`, `"SASL/DIGEST-MD5"`, `"SASL/CRAM-MD5"`, `"TLS SASL/PLAIN"`, `"TLS SASL/DIGEST-MD5"`,
or `"TLS SASL/CRAM-MD5"`, though no enforcement is applied.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.remote.profile` property.

### realm

The realm, as required by remote profile SASL/DIGEST-MD5.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.realm` property.

### additional_jars

Additional JARs to be included in the java command classpath. This is currently only used for support for `wildfly`, where the Additional Jar should be a version of the jboss-client jar found on your wildfly installation.

### resource_attributes

Map of resource attributes that will be applied to any metrics emitted from the metrics gatherer.

Corresponds to the `otel.resource.attributes` property.

### log_level

SLF4J log level for the JMX metrics gatherer. Must be one of: `"trace"`, `"debug"`, `"info"`, `"warn"`, `"error"`, `"off"`. If not provided, will attempt to match to the current log level of the collector.

Corresponds to the `org.slf4j.simpleLogger.defaultLogLevel` property.

Commit message:

enable new flag in jmx ssl

receiver/jmxreceiver/README.md, after:

# JMX Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fjmx%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fjmx) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fjmx%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fjmx) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@rmfitzpatrick](https://www.github.com/rmfitzpatrick) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

### Overview

The JMX Receiver will work in conjunction with the [OpenTelemetry JMX Metric Gatherer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/blob/main/jmx-metrics/README.md)
to report metrics from a target MBean server using a built-in `otel` helper-utilizing Groovy script.

### Details

This receiver will launch a child JRE process running the JMX Metric Gatherer configured with your specified JMX
connection information and target Groovy script.  It then reports metrics to an implicitly created OTLP receiver.
In order to use you will need to download the most [recent release](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/releases)
of the JMX Metric Gatherer JAR and configure the receiver with its path.  It is assumed that the JRE is
available on your system.

# Configuration

Note: this receiver is in alpha and functionality and configuration fields are subject to change.

Example configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  jmx:
    jar_path: /opt/opentelemetry-java-contrib-jmx-metrics.jar
    endpoint: my_jmx_host:12345
    target_system: jvm
    collection_interval: 10s
    initial_delay: 1s
    # optional: the same as specifying OTLP receiver endpoint.
    otlp:
      endpoint: mycollectorotlpreceiver:4317
    username: my_jmx_username
    # determined by the environment variable value
    password: ${env:MY_JMX_PASSWORD}
    resource_attributes:
      my.attr: my.value
      my.other.attr: my.other.value
    log_level: info
    additional_jars:
      - /path/to/other.jar
```

### jar_path (default: `/opt/opentelemetry-java-contrib-jmx-metrics.jar`)

The path for the JMX Metric Gatherer uber JAR to run. This must represent a released version 1.9+ of the jar, 
which can be downloaded from [github](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/releases). 
If a non-released version is required, you can specify a custom version by providing the sha256 hash of your 
custom version of the jar during collector build time using the `ldflags` option. 

```bash
go build -ldflags "-X github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/receiver/jmxreceiver.MetricsGathererHash=<sha256hash>" ...
```

### endpoint
The [JMX Service URL](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/javax/management/remote/JMXServiceURL.html) or host
and port used to construct the Service URL the Metric Gatherer's JMX client should use. Value must be in the form of
`service:jmx:<protocol>:<sap>` or `host:port`. Values in `host:port` form will be used to create a Service URL of
`service:jmx:rmi:///jndi/rmi://<host>:<port>/jmxrmi`.

When in or coerced to `service:jmx:<protocol>:<sap>` form, corresponds to the `otel.jmx.service.url` property.

_Required._

### target_system

The built-in target system (or systems) metric gatherer script to run.
Must be a subset of: `"activemq"`, `"cassandra"`, `"hbase"`, `"hadoop"`,  `"jetty"`, `"jvm"`, `"kafka"`, `"kafka-consumer"`, `"kafka-producer"`, `"solr"`, `"tomcat"`, `"wildfly"`.

If additional target systems must be supported (because of a custom JMX metrics gatherer jar configured using the 
`MetricsGathererHash` build time config), they can be added with another build time flag.

```bash
go build -ldflags "-X github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/receiver/jmxreceiver.MetricsGathererHash=<sha256hash>
       -X github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/receiver/jmxreceiver.AdditionalTargetSystems=newtarget,othernewtarget" ...
```

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.target.system` property.

### collection_interval (default: `10s`)

The interval time for the Groovy script to be run and metrics to be exported by the JMX Metric Gatherer within the persistent JRE process.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.interval.milliseconds` property.

### initial_delay (default: `1s`)

Defines how long this receiver waits before starting.

### username

The username to use for JMX authentication.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.username` property.

### password

The password to use for JMX authentication.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.password` property.

### otlp.endpoint (default: `0.0.0.0:<random open port>`)

The otlp exporter endpoint to which to listen and submit metrics.

Corresponds to the `otel.exporter.otlp.endpoint` property.

### otlp.timeout (default: `5s`)

The otlp exporter request timeout.

Corresponds to the `otel.exporter.otlp.metric.timeout` property.

### otlp.headers

The headers to include in otlp metric submission requests.

Corresponds to the `otel.exporter.otlp.metadata` property.

### enable_jmx_ssl

Must be set to true if your JMX remote server uses SSL.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.remote.registry.ssl` property.

### keystore_path

The keystore path is required if SSL is enabled on the target JVM.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.keyStore` property.

### keystore_password

The keystore file password if required by SSL.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword` property.

### keystore_type

The keystore type if required by SSL.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.keyStoreType` property.

### truststore_path 

The truststore path if the SSL profile is required.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.trustStore` property.

### truststore_password

The truststore file password if required by SSL.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword` property.

### truststore_type

The truststore type if required by SSL.

Corresponds to the `javax.net.ssl.trustStoreType` property.

### remote_profile

Supported JMX remote profiles are TLS in combination with SASL profiles: SASL/PLAIN, SASL/DIGEST-MD5 and SASL/CRAM-MD5.
Should be one of: `"SASL/PLAIN"`, `"SASL/DIGEST-MD5"`, `"SASL/CRAM-MD5"`, `"TLS SASL/PLAIN"`, `"TLS SASL/DIGEST-MD5"`,
or `"TLS SASL/CRAM-MD5"`, though no enforcement is applied.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.remote.profile` property.

### realm

The realm, as required by remote profile SASL/DIGEST-MD5.

Corresponds to the `otel.jmx.realm` property.

### additional_jars

Additional JARs to be included in the java command classpath. This is currently only used for support for `wildfly`, where the Additional Jar should be a version of the jboss-client jar found on your wildfly installation.

### resource_attributes

Map of resource attributes that will be applied to any metrics emitted from the metrics gatherer.

Corresponds to the `otel.resource.attributes` property.

### log_level

SLF4J log level for the JMX metrics gatherer. Must be one of: `"trace"`, `"debug"`, `"info"`, `"warn"`, `"error"`, `"off"`. If not provided, will attempt to match to the current log level of the collector.

Corresponds to the `org.slf4j.simpleLogger.defaultLogLevel` property.
